In this video we're going to talk about how we'll be storing the data for our notes application.
Now we already know how we're getting that data into the program.
For now it's via a command line arguments which we have support for thanks to yards.
The question we are aiming to answer here is what do we do with that data.
When our application gets it we need to figure out how we can save it.
So if someone adds a note and then comes back tomorrow they can load that note up once again to read
it or edit it before this app we'll be using the f s core module to save all of our notes data to the
file system.
Now what exactly is going to go inside of that file.
Well it's going to be Jason data.
So Jason is something that's already come up before with our package lock dot Jason and package dot
Jason files both of these use the Jason format to store and structure their data.
We're going to do the exact same thing to store our notes inside of a text file.
So we're going to have an array of objects where each object represents a note and each object will
have various properties like title and body.
And by working with Jason we're gonna be able to read and write to the file system saving and loading
our data.
Jason is something we're going to be using extensively throughout the class in every single application
in this app.
We'll be using it to save our notes in the next app.
We'll be using it as the communication standard when we fetch real time weather data from back end services.
After that we'll be using it when we create our own API with node j s and we'll even be using Jason
in our real time application at the end of the class.
So Jason is a format you're going to run into over and over again.
And the good news is that it has native support in JavaScript and it's super easy to work with since
it's essentially just arrays and objects with various properties.
Now since we are going to use Jason so much throughout the class I want to take a quick moment to explore
it in isolation before we try to integrate it into the notes app that's going to make sure we really
understand how it works and how we can use it inside of JavaScript and no J S so for the moment what
we're going to do is close down all open files and we're gonna collapse the notes app directory and
we're going to create a new folder in the root of the project called playground now the playground directory
is not going to contain a new application.
This is a place I'm going to use at various points throughout the course four times when we want to
create a little one off script to explore a specific topic we'll use it maybe a dozen different times
throughout the class.
For now we're going to use it to explore.
Jason right here all we're going to do is create a single new script.
I'm going to call it one hyphen.
Jason J S will create other scripts throughout the course as we need to mess around with new topics.
And let's go ahead and kick things off by talking about the data we're going to end up working with.
Jason works really well with objects and arrays in JavaScript and that's a good thing because we're
going to use objects and arrays to model all of our data and object can model something like a book
or a user or a note which has various properties to describe it in detail.
And if we have an array of those things then we have an array of items like we would in any database
right here.
As an example let's start with a book variable whose value will be a new object.
Now there are plenty of properties you could use to model a book.
We're going to stick with just two.
We'll have the title for the book which will be a string and we'll have the author for the book as well.
I'll use a book on my bookshelf ego is the enemy for this example and the author for that particular
book is Ryan Holiday.
It's a great book definitely worth checking out.
So now we have our data stored as a javascript object and the goal is to convert this into Jason which
is nothing more than a string.
So we can do something with it like save it to the file system the FSA core module only knows how to
work with string data.
So we need to figure out how we can take an object represented as a string to save it then load that
back in and get the original object back.
The first method we're going to look at is Jason.
That's upper case Jason Dutch string of PHI.
This is a Java Script method that takes in an object or an array or any value for that matter and it
returns the Jason string representation.
So in our case we can pass the book variable in as the one and only argument and what it returns is
our Jason data.
So over here on the left hand side I can create a variable like book Jason to keep the variable names
unique then we can go ahead and log this to the Council using console log book.
Jason perfect.
Now that we have this in place let's go ahead and ask truly run things.
So from the terminal down below we have to switch directories.
I'll be using C D.
Dot dot to get out of the notes directory then forward slash playground to go into that directory all
with a single command from here.
I will use clear to clear the terminal output.
Then we'll run our script node space 1.
Jason dot J.
S I run it.
And what do I get.
I get my data showing up now you'll notice that it looks pretty much like a javascript object.
The only difference is that all of our single quotes have been converted to double quotes and double
quotes have been added to all property names which I mentioned a bit earlier in the course is indeed
a requirement with Jason.
So book Jason is a string.
It is not an object if I tried to access a property like book Jason title.
It's not going to exist.
The book object has the title property the Jason data does not.
If I run the program we can see we get undefined it is unable to find that property.
Now this is the part in the program where we would typically do something like Save the Jason data to
the file system so we could load it in later and work with it and we will get there in just a few seconds
before we do I want to explore the opposite of Jason Dodge Durango fi Jason dodge during if I takes
in the object and gives us a Jason string back.
We also have access to Jason dat pass which takes in the Jason string and gives us back the object.
So right here I am going to pass to the pass method.
Our Jason data we have that stored on the book Jason variable and past returns the object or array it
returns the past Jason's all right here.
I'll create a new concept called past data storing it equal to whatever comes back from the pass method.
Now we have our original object back and we can do something like console dot log past data dot author
to get the actual author value I'm going to save Jason dot J S I'm going to rerun the script and I get
Ryan Holiday printing so we were indeed able to access a property on past data because past data is
indeed a javascript object.
So these are the two core methods for working with Jason.
Jason string if I to take an object and convert it to Jason and Jason pass to take Jason data in and
convert it to an object.
Now let's integrate what we know about Jason with the file system.
So I am going to load that in up above creating an F S variable and requiring the F S module and we're
going to use that method we've used before.
Right file sync to write some data.
Right here we can remove everything except for the line where we create our Jason will remove our two
logs as well as the call to Jason dock pass and old we're going to do is use F S dot right file sync
to create a new file.
Now I'm going to call this something like 1 hyphen Jason dot.
Jason since we're storing Jason data it's not a text file then we're going to provide the data we want
to write.
And in this case we are going to pass in our Jason data book.
Jason be variable.
Now if we save the program and rerun things we're gonna have a brand new file in that playground directory.
And if we crack that open what do we have.
We have our Jason data saved which is awesome.
We could even use visual studio code to format this data in a nicer way or we can do that manually or
we could just leave it as is.
But clearly we have our title property you go as the enemy and we have our author Ryan Holiday.
This is now Jason data.
We could load in at a later time and reuse.
So let's go ahead and see how we would get that done as well.
We're going to load in that file using another FSI method.
We're going to pass it and we're going to access the data to do this.
Let's go ahead and start by commenting out all of the code that creates the book variable and rights
to the file since we already have the file written and we're going to start by using a method called
F S dot read file sync read the file sync as the name suggests is going to allow us to read a file and
we pass to it just a single argument in this case it is the name we used up above with right file sync.
So we are trying to read the following file one hyphen Jason Dot.
Jason now that we have the F S read file St..
Colin place we can go ahead and grab its return value which is going to contain the contents of the
file.
Now we can create a variable to store the contents that came back and I'm going to call this something
like data buffer now why am I calling it buffer.
Because what comes back is not a string it is actually a buffer which is a way for node j asked to represent
binary data and we could see this down below console dialog data buffer.
And what we're not going to get is the contents of our file as we see them.
Instead we're going to get some buffer data.
I'll run the script down below and right here we have those bits and bytes.
Now if we actually want to get our string back there is a two string method we can use to get these
string back as we would have expected.
And if I run this script again with two string in place there we are indeed getting our data being read
from the file system.
So we have the data buffer variable then down below we can create a data Jason variable.
And here we're just going to use data buffer dot to string perfect.
So now we have our Jason that we've read from the file system and we can go ahead and pass it right
here.
I'm going to create a contest called data.
I'll be using Jason dot pass to pass it and we have that data on the data Jason variable.
Now we have our data and we can do something with it.
I could for example console dot log a property off of it.
Let's go ahead and try data dot title which should indeed exist.
Since we have the title and body excuse me title and author properties on our data right here I'm gonna
save the program.
I'm going to run things and I correctly get ego is the enemy.
So we read the file in getting our binary data.
We then converted that data into a standard string in JavaScript.
We then passed that Jason data into an object and finally we access a property from it.
So there we go.
We now know how to work with Jason data in JavaScript and we also know how to read it and write it from
the file system which is everything we need to be able to do to work with our notes application actually
saving a user's notes.
Now it's challenge time and I have a phone one lined up.
So right here I am going to comment out a code that we just wrote.
Making sure this script does nothing in its current state and what we're going to do is first pull ups
and Jason data that you're going to work with for this challenge.
You can find that by heading over to the browser and going to links dot Meade dot I O forward slash
it is Jason hyphen sample when you go to this you are L which is a bitterly link it's going to redirect
you over to some Jason data.
We're gonna use for this challenge right here that you are L redirects me over to a get hub gist.
And right here I have a little bit of Jason data.
I'm going to copy that entire Jason File.
I'm gonna bring it over to visual studio code and I'm going to paste it right inside of our existing
Jason File and you can see that visual studio code has actually automatically formatted it for me.
I can see that we have a name value of Andrew a planet of Earth and an age of twenty seven.
Now let's go ahead and talk about what exactly I'd like you to do for this challenge and we're gonna
do that over here in the Jason J J.S. file down below.
I'm gonna add a few empty lines and paste in the challenge comments.
Your job is to work with Jason and the file system to complete this one.
First up you are going to load and pass the Jason data the data that we just pasted in to the Jason
File.
So we want to make sure we get an actual javascript object out of that like we did above.
Then you're going to alter that object changing the name and age property to match up with your information.
You're going to leave Earth alone since I'm pretty sure that's where you currently live.
If not hello from another planet.
Now once you have name and age edited in the object in this file you want to string a fi that object
and override the original data.
So right here you're going to use what we learned about string application and writing.
Jason to override the contents of this file with the new information then you're going to test your
work by running the script and viewing the data over here.
You should see a new value for name and a new value for age which line up with the values you chose.
Take as much time as you need to knock this out.
You have everything you need just up above in order to get this done when you are done.
Don't forget to test your work then come back and click play
how that go.
Let's go ahead and jump right in.
By first passing the data.
So right here I'm going to create a variable something along the lines of a data buffer.
We will be using F S dot read file sync to load that Jason data in B file one hyphen.
Jason.
Jason next up we're going to convert that to a string so data.
Jason which is gonna be a string we'll get its value from using the buffers to string method.
So data buffer dot to string perfect from here we can pass that into an object.
So I'm going to call this one user.
You could have called it data or anything you wanted.
And I'll be using Jason dot pass to pass my data Jason variable right here.
Data upper case Jason.
So now we've completed step 1.
We've loaded the data in and we've passed it.
Step two is to change that data.
I'm gonna set user dot name equal to a different name from my own.
I'll go ahead and use something like Gunther and then I'm going to update the age user dot age.
Let's go ahead and say that he's 54.
That completes step two.
Now we're going to string a fi that object and save it exactly like we did up above.
So right here we are going to create something like user Jason getting its value from Jason dot string
a fine.
What are we trying to string ify that user object.
Once we have that and we can write it using F S dot right.
File sync we are writing to the exact same file.
I wanted you to override the original data.
So right here one hyphen.
Jason.
Jason is the file name where we got our data from and we have to pass it in the data we want to write.
We have that in the user Jason string.
Excellent.
Now that we have this in place we can test our work.
So over in the Jason File we have the data we had before.
I have Andrew and 27 down below in the terminal.
I'm going to rerun the exact same script we were running before and right away we can see the data has
changed.
I have a name value of Gunther which has changed I have a planet value of earth which has stayed the
same and I have an age of 54 which is indeed unique.
That is the value I used over here.
Now that we have this in place we know how to work with Jason and we know how to work with Jason.
With respect to the file system.
So we are ready to move on to the next video and actually use all of this to save notes in the notes
application.
The reason I spent so much time talking about just Jason in this video is because we're going to use
it so much throughout the class.
And I wanted you to have a good grasp of exactly what it is.
It is nothing more than a string representation of what looks like an object or an array over inside
of our Jason File.
I'll remove all of the commented out code to clean things up leaving just our little challenge example
although I don't believe will actually be coming back to this file throughout the rest of the class.
And that's where we're going to stop for this one.
I'll see you in the next one.